Now what is testing and why would we want to test ? Now
testing, when you hear it for the first time, sounds pretty obvious, pretty straightforward.
We are writing an app, we're creating an application and we simply test it, right,
we had a feature,
we opened the browser and we test our application and that is indeed how you will continue to work even
if you do add this kind of testing I'll dive in in this video.
So testing manually still is something that makes sense,
you want to see your application run.
So in the end, the idea always is that we have our code and we have some expected result,
so if we write some code and then we go into the browser and test this code we have some idea of what
should happen,
we want to open that modal, we want to add that user when we click that button, something like this.
So we have our expected results in mind and then we simply test our application and if we are successful,
we are fine with that,
we can continue with writing the next piece of code and if we're not happy with the result, well then
we can modify our code and fix the issue or adjust it such that it works in the way we want.
Now the idea of Javascript testing or code testing when you read it like this is that we automate this
testing part, so that we automate it so that we don't have to manually test everything in our application.
Now we will probably still test everything manually but automated tests can be run whenever we change
something in code to see if that affects any part of our application without us having to test everything
manually again,
that's the idea behind automated testing, that we can see breaking changes or issues in our code, maybe
introduced by a change in place A in a totally different place of our app, that we can see this instantly,
That is one of the major benefits of writing tests.
So that is also one answer to the question, why would we want to test?
We want to get an error and see the error if we break our code, we want to see that immediately without us testing
everything manually,
we might still do manual testing but it's still worth a lot to have a suite of predefined automated tests
that we can run to quickly see
did this change break anything,
well with well written tests, we'll get the answer right away.
We'll also save time if we don't have to test everything manually over and over again
and we are also forced to think about possible issues or bugs when writing our tests.
We have to think about what do we want to test,
how do we write a test that makes sense
and I'll dive into that and this video already. We also can integrate it into our build workflow,
this is something more advanced but there I mean that you could have a build workflow where you push
a commit, so a git commit to your code repository like Github and then you have a workflow that automatically
is triggered where this code is then tested in the cloud on some server and if the test succeeds, it's
maybe deployed automatically. So you can build a very complex deployment chain there and tests are then
an integral part of ensuring that no breaking or invalid code is deployed,
so that is always an advantage of tests or something you can use tests for. We can also break up complex
dependencies and that is also something I'll show in this video,
we have to make sure we write code that can be split up, that is modular because this will make testing
easier and ultimately it will make working with our code easier and it improves our code
therefore since we are forced to follow certain patterns or to write code in a certain way or at least
that will make testing easier, we will write better code all together.
So these are a lot of great advantages but they might still be a bit abstract when you have not written
any tests,
so let's dive into testing soon but not before I try to answer one other question and that is, which
types of tests do we have?
I'm talking about automated tests, so some code we write that tests our code, so code that tests code,
that is a good description of what testing is or what automated testing is I guess
and there we have different kinds of tests.
We have some tests that test a fully isolated piece of code,
let's say a function that takes some input and returns some output.
We can test such a function with a test because it has a clearly defined structure and we can say for
input x and y, we expect to get output z
and that would be a so-called unit test because we test a single, isolated unit of our application.
We also have some tests that test units with some dependencies,
so we have no isolated piece of code anymore but we might have a function that calls another function
let's say
and therefore the function we're testing depends on the result of another function and that is called
an integration test because there, we're testing more than just a single unit,
we test the integration of a feature into another features so to say. We also have the full flow
which we can test or the user interface,
so the full application or a part of the full application
and this is so-called end-to-end or also user interface test.
The idea here is really that we do what we could do manually as well in the browser but that we write
kind of an automated script that executes a certain series of steps for us and then we can check if
the result is the result we expected to get.
Now these kinds of tests have a different complexity, units tests are relatively easy to write because
you have a small unit and you know it is easy to infer what you want to get as a result.
The more dependencies you add, the more complex it becomes because it gets harder to differentiate between
what exactly is causing an error, is it a dependency or the function that uses the dependencies.
Also you might have some dependencies that reach out to a server and fetch data, that is also complexity
you have to handle and I will show you how to handle this in a separate video. And the full user interface
test is the most complex one because there, you have to define every step that should be executed and
cleverly think about what you want to test and what you want to expect there.
Now also due to this complexity, we write tests in a different frequency.
We typically have a lot of unit tests because if you test every unit of your application and it works
correctly, you can kind of infer that the overall application will also work correctly,
so we will have a lot of unit tests.
We then have some integration tests to rule out that two individually working units don't work anymore
if you combine them and we have a few UI or end-to-end tests, to test some steps or some flows in our application
in the browser, in an automated way.
So these are the kinds of tests
and in this video I will show you all three already
and with that I'd say it's enough of the theory,
let's start writing some tests.